today we're going to be doing an
unboxing of the SteelSeries shift gaming
keyboard so this is the replacement
product for the Z board or Zed board and
no matter what way I say it somebody's
going to complain so I don't care so
this is the shift the Z board is gone
this is a SteelSeries branded product
the Z board was a kind of a legacy
product left over from the ideas on
acquisition so it was originally the
ideas on time okay I'm not going to talk
about the Seaboard anymore we're going
to talk about the shift so just like the
Z board the shift has replaceable key
sets removable replaceable re anything
of all key sets that means you can put
in custom ones for a particular game
that you like you can put in the stock
one if you don't have a particular game
that you like although there's a lot of
gaming functions on the stock one let's
just get this unboxed and talk about all
the different features and get all the
different features more than anything
else so this is the SteelSeries sticker
that is included very irrelevant next we
have a professional gaming gear catalog
where they actually show here's one of
the custom key sets or two of them
rather for the shift so there's a world
of warcraft one there's a Starcraft 2
one there are a variety of other games a
lot of animals that SteelSeries does
have custom key sets for it
Hey look at this no CD download the
latest drivers SteelSeries says so -
because they are serious about gaming
and so am i when you're serious gamer
you're never using drivers off the disk
you are always downloading your own so
that's in a variety of languages
SteelSeries is a worldwide company and
they do sell into a number large number
rather of different markets so here
under a little flap at the top we're
going to find a little wrist rest which
say I can remove the tape from and we'll
show you that as well and then once I've
got the product completely removed from
the Box I'm just going to close the box
back up then we'll have a look at what
SteelSeries has to say for themselves on
the back of the product here now the
thing that stood out to me about the
shift more than anything
the first time I saw which was quite a
while ago actually I mind you that was
that was a prototype so the finished
product may be slightly different what
is the fact that the build quality of it
the overall fit and finish of the shift
is just worlds ahead worlds ahead of the
old Zboard so here I'm actually going to
stand over here don't don't shift your
angle oh we're going to look at the
we're going to look at the shift here so
we can install the wrist rest just like
that quite easily all right you can see
the bottom of its got like this weird
like texture thing going on that's kind
of neat then you've got oh look at that
so you can either tilt it a little bit
or a lot or not at all
you've got three different settings for
the rubberized feet there that's a
pretty neat little feature so we're
going to not tilt it at all for the sake
of this video okay and let's see what
SteelSeries has to say so first of all
one they have there are eight
programmable hotkeys so those are up
here on the top there's your eight
programmable hotkeys and then number two
we have on-the-fly macro recording so
that is located right about here so you
can just press record macro and you can
record a macro next we have multiple
media controls so you can see the media
control keys are right over here on the
left look at the keyboard not the blocks
actually here I'll I'll point out where
they are sorry about that okay so we've
got mute volume up volume down play
forward as well as backwards next we
have gold plated audio and audio headset
jacks so that is on the quite long cord
actually that's included on the shift
here's all of our plugs so one of these
USB s is for the keyboard itself the
others for the integrated hub and the
other two are for audio so if you do
have a SteelSeries headset you can
actually shorten the cable on most of
them and then you can plug it directly
into the back of your keyboard so this
is where all of that comes out so
there's your USB hub there's your
microphone and there is your headphone
port so that's a pretty neat little
feature because it really reduces the
amount of random cable mess around your
computer desk next we have yet to USB
2.0 ports one powered
ergonomic design with three yet we
already showed the other three leg
levels and then the detachable wrist
rest which we already showed now I'm not
going to be able to obviously use it for
an extended period of time here and tell
you guys my impressions but I can at
least tell you how comfortable it feels
right off the bat so if I was sitting at
sort of a reasonable typing level
actually that's that's fairly nice now
one of the things that is going to be a
little bit different for people is the
split in the keyboard so you can see
there's actually a hinge that goes right
through the spacebar alright and then
there is another split right between the
keyboard and where the number pad and
the other Keys including your arrow keys
are so the reason for that is over on
this side we have a little latch and we
can lift the whole thing up just like
that so that is how easy it is to remove
the key set so here's the entire shift
keyboard with just the key switches
installed and nothing else and when you
want to put on a new key set you go
ahead and you can either by the shift in
a bundle sometimes with an appropriate
key set or you can buy the key sets on
their own so all you need to do is go
okay well you know gonna play some
Starcraft 2 for my Starcraft 2 key set
on there just like that and clip it on
that simple pretty neat okay let's look
at what else we have here in terms of
features I'm going to cheat I'm going to
look at the box and see if there's
anything that I've missed and I don't
believe that there is so there's a lot
of there's a lot of key sets as I
mentioned before for some MMO some RTS
some FPS games mostly it's going to be
your more popular games you know Age of
Empires Warcraft those kinds of triple-a
sorts of titles but yeah the thing that
really stands out to me most about the
shift compared to the old Zboard oh yeah
here's another good one you can actually
use your old Zboard key sets with the
new shift so like I said the overall
build quality the feel of the keys
themselves
switches that are underneath is much
much better on the shift it's just got
an overall more robust feel to it
and if you just want a new shift and you
want to use your old key set it's as
simple as just buying a shift taking
this off and throwing your old key set
on it just like that so thank you for
checking out my unboxing if you steel
series shift don't forget to subscribe
to Linus tech tips for more unboxings
reviews and other random tech stuff